hey what's up my name is Brock Johnson
and in this video I'm going to share
with you 10 Instagram features that you
probably didn't know existed in 2023 in
case you've never met before it's my job
to help other people grow on Instagram
whether you're a Creator a business
owner or an entrepreneur it's my job to
help you grow your followers on social
media so you can then turn those
followers into paying customers over the
last few years I've been growing my
Instagram at a rate of about a thousand
followers per day and over that time
I've actually built a relationship with
Instagram and meta staff and so I get to
test out a lot of these new features and
just see what they're like before they
get rolled out to the public I also run
an Instagram Coaching Club with members
worldwide so I'm constantly getting
feedback on what new features are being
secretly tested in different regions
oftentimes Instagram will test out new
features in smaller markets say in one
or two relatively small countries before
rolling it out worldwide they do this
because just like any other business
they want to work out all the Kinks and
glitches and iron out all of the
malfunctions before they roll it out to
all 2 billion users with that being said
though I don't think there's ever been a
new Instagram feature that was rolled
out that doesn't have plenty of
malfunctions and glitches baked into it
I think that's just the reality of
having 2 billion users who are all in
different devices not just desktop or
mobile but even within the mobile
category there are thousands of
different phone carriers and
manufacturers and so they have to try to
optimize Instagram for each and every
single one of these different devices so
it's usually likely that when a new
feature gets rolled out there's going to
be some glitches and malfunctions built
into it speaking of a very common
Instagram glitch that pretty much every
single account has is that we don't all
get access to the same features at the
same time even if you live in a country
and you have the type of account that is
supposed to have one of the features I'm
about to mention you might still not
have access to those features it's not
necessarily because of anything you're
doing wrong it might be because you
haven't updated your app or your phone
but more than likely you probably have
done that and if you have there's
probably nothing you are doing wrong to
not get access to these features
sometimes certain features for whatever
reason just don't make it to our account
I know that myself personally of the 10
things I'm about to list for you I have
a verified Instagram account with over
600 000 followers I have a personal
relationship with members of Instagram
and Mattis team and I literally teach
about Instagram for a living and yet
there are still some features that I
don't have access to myself so if you
don't have access to one of the features
I'm about to list first and foremost
make sure that your app and your phone
are fully up to date make sure that all
of your software is running smoothly it
can sometimes be beneficial to clear out
your data although I will recommend
being careful doing that because you
don't want to clear out your drafts or
anything important that you have saved
on Instagram but it can be beneficial to
get some of those new features sometimes
people get new features by logging out
and logging back in deleting the
Instagram app and re-downloading it all
those things aren't a guarantee either
really the biggest key to getting these
new features is to just sit back and be
patient I know there's a phone all
involved I know that we freak out when
one of our competitors or someone else
on Instagram has a feature that we don't
have yet and we feel like we're
following behind but just take a deep
breath and know that eventually you'll
get access to these features as well
also while these 10 features that I'm
about to list are all confirmed official
features by Instagram I should mention
there are hundreds if not thousands of
features that Instagram is testing but
they haven't officially announced yet
these are all official but that doesn't
mean that they have all been rolled out
worldwide usually it takes a few months
if not a few years for these features to
move from the official category to the
officially rolled out worldwide and
everyone has access to them category and
even once they're in that category still
not quite 100 of accounts will have
access to all these features alright
let's get into the 10 features number
one broadcast channels broadcast
channels were announced in February of
2023 and they're essentially a
one-to-many group chat so unlike other
group Chats on Instagram where you can
have everyone having a conversation
everyone's able to contribute and send
their own messages in broadcast channels
it's really meant to be one person
speaking to a large group of people
broadcast channels are available both
within your followers and within your
subscribers and again it's just a way
for you to send alerts send updates send
messages for people to see in the DMS
but they can't really respond they can
react to the message if you send a poll
they can vote in the poll if you send a
link they can click on the link if you
send a photo or a post they can click on
that post but they can actually type and
send their own messages so it's truly
just met for broadcasting certain
messages alerts and reminders number two
meta verified
meta verified is a new subscription
feature that is being rolled out on
Instagram that's very similar to Twitter
blue where essentially you're going to
be able to pay a monthly fee in order to
unlock certain features and benefits on
Instagram in the announcement Instagram
said that they're going to make the
subscription available for 15 dollars
per month and included in that
subscription is access to a Instagram
customer service hotline where you're
actually going to speak to a real person
improved reach and discoverability
you're going to get the blue verified
check mark next to your name and you're
going to have increased security
measures to protect your account from
hackers and impersonator number three
the Dual profile picture where the
second profile picture is your Instagram
Avatar Instagram and really specifically
Facebook and meta begin really pushing
hard for their new avatars at the end of
2022. these avatars are somewhat similar
to the me's that you would make on the
Wii console back in the day and they're
essentially like little tiny cartoon
versions of yourself that supposedly are
supposed to be your meta Universe
version of yourself and now if you have
an avatar set up you can choose to add
it as your profile picture but when
someone views your profile they can
swipe back and forth on your profile
picture to go from your real photo that
you have set as your profile picture and
your avatar profile picture the fourth
new feature is an interactive map now
Instagram has had a map for a really
long time and basically for as long as
you've been able to Geo tag and tag your
location on your posts Instagram has had
a map but now they meet significant
improvements to that app to improve its
discoverability and its search ability
you can now move around the map see
different things in your area search for
different local businesses events and
different stories locations that people
are attacking wherever you're searching
on the map number five is the creator
Marketplace the Creator Marketplace is a
feature that is essentially a way for
creators to connect with Brands who
might want to sponsor their posts if
you're a Creator in the Creator
Marketplace you can advertise here's who
I am here's what I post about here's
what my demographic fix our maybe here
are some other brands that I've worked
with in the past and if you're a brand
you can use the Creator Marketplace to
search for other creators and
influencers who are looking for brand
deals and Partnerships now because this
feature is relatively new I haven't seen
a ton of creators or Brands using it
successfully yet there are definitely
people using it but the real brand deals
the brand deals that actually resonate
with you and your audience and that
makes sense and that are paying a fair
Creator fee I haven't seen those on the
Creator Marketplace yet but it is a new
feature and it's another way that
Instagram is trying to allow us as
creators and entrepreneurs to make more
money right on the platform number six
is reels templates reels templates are
exactly what they sound like they are
templates for your reels based off what
other people have made so basically as
you're scrolling through the reels
explore Tab and you're seeing all these
other reels that other people have made
sometimes you'll see a little button
that says use template if you tap on
that button Instagram will open a blank
canvas reel basically all that there
will be is the background prone to music
and a bunch of small little empty clip
slots down at the bottom you can then
tap on each of those slots and plug in
your own photo or video and Instagram
has it preset to be a certain amount of
time which matches or lines up with the
Reel that created the template basically
it's an easier way to recreate trends
that other people have already made and
I found reals templates to be especially
useful if you're doing one of those
Trends where there's lots of really fast
cuts that have to happen at a certain
moment maybe in the song or in the video
those are actually really really useful
for reels templates other reels
templates not so much similar to Reels
templates Instagram released something
called reels grooves reels grooves are
essentially reels templates but they're
cut to the music so rather than aligning
your Cuts or your Clips with whoever
made this first original version of the
real one your template or your reel is
based off of the template they made
instead reels grooves are based on the
song So basically instead of relying on
someone else to make a reel in order to
create this reels template Instagram is
rolling out Real's grooves so you can
automatically sync up your Clips or your
videos to the actual beats or the cuts
in the song the eighth new feature that
you might know about is nft sharing nft
non-fungible tokens can be shared on
Instagram when you share one of these
Collectibles onto Instagram it has its
own little badge icon in the upper right
hand corner and the collectible actually
shows up in its own unique uh tab on
your Instagram feed so it's kind of like
a display case for your nfts there are
rumors that in the future and actually
Instagram CEO himself has said that in
the future they want to create an entire
nft Marketplace on Instagram where you
can buy sell and trade nfts but
currently you can just use Instagram to
kind of display your nfts and verify
that you own certain pieces the ninth
new feature that you might not have
heard about is reactive audio reactive
audio is kind of like a filter that you
can apply to your videos on Instagram
where when you make certain body
movements certain sound effects will be
cute for example if I punch my right
hand out to the right then like a drum
will hit and if I punch my left hand up
then suddenly there will be like a chime
sound effect or if I like put both hands
out then suddenly there's a bang sound
effect so it's something that's just a
little bit more creative and a little
bit of a way to improve your reels
quality and just make them a little bit
more unique the 10th new feature you
might have missed in this one is super
useful is the ability to import an audio
when you're on the reels audio page
you're about to make your reel rather
than selecting a saved audio from the
past or a song that Instagram provides
there's actually a little button up at
the top of the screen that says import
this will allow you to then select any
video from your camera roll and import
the audio from said video so if you're
picking up what I'm putting down you can
use a different app maybe an app that is
named after the ticking of a clock and
find a popular audio over there save
that video to your device doesn't matter
if it has The Tick Tock logo I said it
doesn't matter if it has the logo or
whatnot all that matters is that it has
that trending audio in the background
then go to Instagram open the audios
page tap the import button and you can
import that audio into Instagram of
course if that audio already exists in
Instagram it would be beneficial for you
to use the already existing if not
already trending audio version on
Instagram but if it doesn't you can be
one of the first people to bring it over
to Instagram and maybe you're going to
be the person to start the trend let me
know down in the comments if any of
these features surprised you if you
hadn't heard about them before or if you
do have access to them and now you
finally understand what they do and if
you found this video helpful in any way
please don't forget to press that like
button and subscribe for more content
about growing on social media